

===0306===



If you are having health problems, write to "The Doctors," SUNDAY Weekly Magazine, Vesterbrogade 16, 1505 Copenhagen V.  Only the SUNDAY Weekly Magazine's doctors may open your mail.  NB: Unfortunately, the doctors cannot take it upon themselves to provide a private response.   

BIRTH CONTROL PILLS DURING MENOPAUSE?

Many women want to stop taking birth control pills, when they are in their late 40s.  However, this raises a whole series of questions, which the doctors will answer here - among other things, whether hormones can replace birth control pills.

Illustration: Ole Clausen

Bodil is 49 years old.  She has taken birth control pills for many years.  Early on, she had 3 children, one after the other, did not want any more, and, because of her opposition to abortion, wanted to make 100% sure.  Therefore, she chose birth control pills, which have served her well without side effects.

When she turned 40, I spoke with her about a different form of prevention instead of birth control pills, but she did not want it under any circumstances.  Any risks there might be for women over 40, she would take upon her own shoulders.







===1252===



Denmark's attitude towards China, since the dramatic suppression of the pro-democratic student uprising at the Tiananmen Square in 1989, has been simmering on a very weak pilot light.  China is still grounded, and Danida is keeping the coffers hermetically sealed on Danish commitments to China.

"The Chinese are disappointed at Denmark's attitude.  The Danes were among the first foreign business people in China, but now we are among the last to turn up again," says Oliver Jensen, FLS in Peking.

He says that development in southern China is going so fast that you lose your breath.

"We have great expectations for the reforms, although we are prepared that they might come in fits and starts.  But it is exciting to see how far they dare to go in unleashing market forces."

FLS has been active in China since 1906 and has established 20-30 cement factories, scattered around the country.  At the moment, they are about to build a facility in Shanghai, financed by a Spanish loan through FLS' sister firm in Spain.







===0104===



The proposal for joint group meetings between V and K is not entirely new.

In fact, a historic joint group meeting was held before the launching of the KV plan in 1964, and, in 1965, it cost the leader of the Liberal Party at that time, former Prime Minister Erik Erikson his role as the party's leading figure that he directly supported a merger of the two parties.

The time was not ripe then for such a decisive step:

"Nor is it, for that matter, now.  We must first, at any rate, go through a long, long period during which people in the two parties can become acquainted with each other's chemistry.  Here, regular joint group and executive committee meetings could be a step along the way.

This would prevent many misunderstandings between our two parties.

We must think of the co-operation among the coming generation of non-socialist politicians.  It would be a shame for the whole thing to fall through, because some individuals have kept the co-operation going," says the Minister for Fisheries.

After a weekend with his family at Fanø, he was in Brussels on Monday at the EC Minister of Fisheries meeting.







===0531===



EMPL = AGG SOURCE = RTZ TO BE BROADCAST = 4:00 p.m. READER = = ER


Two convicted executives of the July 6 Bank, chairman of the board Niels Johan Leer and director John Olsdorf, appealed their judgment on the spot from the Copenhagen Municipal Court with a demand for acquittal.  The prosecuting authority has also reserved the possibility of appeal.


The chairman of the board received a year and a half in jail and a fine of DKK one million for fraudulent abuse of authority, tax fraud of a particularly gross nature, and violation of the Danish Companies Act and the Commercial Banks and Savings Banks Act.  The bank's director John Olsdorff received 6 months in jail and a fine of DKK 90,000.


Both are charged with having inflicted a loss on the bank of around DKK 60 million through reckless and illegal loans.  They have also evaded payments to the tax authorities in the amount of DKK 3.5 million.


Two rank and file board members were acquitted.  The municipal court judge Nils Erik 
Jensen, however, did not hide the fact that the board members could not go home with a clear conscience. 


-  The acquittal is in no way a seal of approval that they have done their board work in an exemplary fashion - that is far from the case, the judge interjected in his remarks on the judgment.







===0188===



Guide:  There IS life in Danish software development.  After a delay, a program is ready to help customers around in museums, supermarkets, city halls - and MikroData in Bella Centre.

The Europeans should be intelligent enough.

So believe the idea men behind the Scout program, which at the entrance to the MikroData fair guides the way in the jungle of exhibitors.

And with that word of praise, they indicate that they will leave it to us to do the spelling with the help of the keyboard.

Nor with Scout should there be any way of making a mistake: Type in the name of a firm or type in a search word and the screen very instructively shows the nearest route to it or the relevant stand.  A forerunner helped visitors at the last MikroData two years ago.

"We have programmed everything from the bottom up in Turbo Pascal, and this has probably robbed us of a little time," says John Marrot from the firm Scansoft, which is behind the programming.

Originally, his acquaintance Steen Olsen, who works in an office supplies firm in Copenhagen, had ordered the program for the price of 100 programming hours.  These 100 hours became instead 5,000 hours.







===0620===



-  I felt that everything was not as it should be, he continued,
-  So, I got hold of the porter who, sure enough, had seen a man being let in to the apartment here.

-  Where do we go from here, I wonder?  she asked thoughtfully.

Flemming shrugged his shoulders.

-  He will soon be arrested, he said with conviction, - and it will probably also be the best thing for him.  But let's forget him.  There's something I want to ask you about.

-  Yes?

-  I know that we haven't known each other very long, but that isn't always what it's about.  Would you ? would you marry me, Trine?

-  Yes, she replied without hesitation.  And with a gentle laughter, he pulled her close, close to him.

-  A real romantic Christmas wedding? he continued questioningly.

-  Hmm, she hid her face in his chest with a slight blush in her cheeks.







===1038===



But it was with the fricassee of pike and trout dish Preben Madsen landed his victory.  In addition to local judges, Erwin Lauterbach, Saison at Skovshoved Hotel, was on the panel of judges. Madsen gave me the recipe.  The ingredients are: 400g pike filet, 400g trout filet, 150g country ham in julienne strips, two small spring cabbages, a bunch of parsley, two dl vegetable bouillon, two thin leeks cut in rings, two teaspoons whole seed mustard, two teaspoons ordinary vinegar, 200g butter and salt and pepper.

Cut the fish in cubes, bake them on buttered baking sheets in the oven at 140 degrees.  The cabbage is cooked until tender.  The sauce: Steam the leek rings in vegetable bouillon, remove them, reduce the bouillon, add vinegar and mustard, stir in butter, add chopped parsley.

Serve the fish cubes with the cabbage and leek rings, pour a little of the sauce over the fish and sprinkle the ham on top.

You may also serve new potatoes baked in butter.

Preben Madsen, who is 31 years old, was trained at Hovborg Inn.  Since then, he has among other places, been at Pakhuset in Esbjerg, Hotel Plaza in Copenhagen and at Henne Kirkeby Inn.







===1035===



One of the country's legal experts in the jungle of cooperative housing is real estate broker, Svend Trangeled, J.D., from the law firm of Niels Gesner, Copenhagen.  He says that it is particularly housing co-operatives and partnership arrangements that are subject to pitfalls.  There is a distinct difference in how these structures work - not only with respect to ownership, but also with respect to taxes.  Just as one must be entirely clear how one is liable for the finances of the cooperative.

Partnerships are deemed in certain circles - especially, certain political ones - as an evasion of the law on co-operative housing and, therefore, it is not the structure Svend Trangeled would recommend first and foremost.

It is also here that one actually does not own one's residence.  One owns, rather, a share in the assets of the partnership, which owns the residence - to which one has a right of use.  And here the bylaws play a decisive role, says Trangeled, who recommends that at any rate one ally oneself with an expert, when establishing a cooperative.  Also to be sure that there will not be tax problems.








===0602===



-  Nor do I.  So, let's go to your place, she said.

She was different than I thought.  In the taxi, she leaned her head against my shoulder, but on the way up the stairs she said once again that it was not like that.

-  Here we are, two people in the middle of the night apologising, as if it is secret and forbidden what we're doing.  Why do we do that?

-  Do we do that? she asked.  It came to nothing in bed, but it didn't matter.  We lay naked beside each other and talked and drank tea and port.

-  First, I ran from one man to another, she said.  -  I always had a name in my head, until I discovered that that wasn't at all what it was about.  I thought if only I could get a man to be with me, everything would be fine.







===0863===



He considers the lack of inner conflict to be the hallmark of the Danes.  We have a tradition for consensus and broad agreement.

"You are a tribe characterised by an unusual popular and cultural unity.  This is not the same as uniformity, which Molesworth described.  You have a lot of imagination and geniuses such as, for example, Halfdan Rasmussen, but you are all Danish and in agreement that you are Danish.  In my country, Scotland, on the other hand, we are many kinds of Scots."

So, for James Mellon, light hair and lovely girls are core Danish, but Danishness is primarily our willingness to co-operate and unique language, which is pretty much a secret to the globe's five billion other inhabitants.

"It is typical that the co-operative movement would be successful in Denmark, but it failed in Scotland."  Danishness survives

But not only is the welfare state threatened by internationalisation, culture is, as well.  Danishness is coming under pressure.

"The Danes have always been, even 300 years ago, so I'm optimistic on your behalf.  But the danger is a levelling of the different European cultures, a sort of Americanisation, via the new market relations and free settlement everywhere," continues James Mellon.







===0502===



A couple of pieces of good advice.

The Egyptian Sinuhe, the lonely doctor, said that, once you have drunk from the waters of the Nile, you will long to go back.  Today, he would have been dead many times over, because the Nile is so polluted that, if you were merely to stick a finger into the river, you would risk absorbing a parasite into your system.

Therefore, never eat vegetables or drink water from the faucet.  You should rather have plastic liter bottles.  If you do not watch out, then you will, guaranteed, get what is called the Cairo step.  A good piece of advice on which I survived is two pills of Paragurth plus a large gulp of Fernet Branca three times a day.

Another good piece of advice is to make your next trip to Egypt.  It is an experience of a lifetime.

Pharaohs' tutelary god Honus - king of the world - is often represented with the head of a falcon and a double crown.

On guard in front of the Cheops pyramid.

The travel writer at the Red Sea.

Sheraton in Luxor.  View over the swimming pool and the Nile towards "The kingdom of the dead."







===0956===



It is a precondition that there is created or there is a firm foundation - before a lasting "jack effect" can work, it is therefore an unconditional requirement that the deeper layers of soil are viable, put in another way, you cannot think that you can just put a Band-Aid on an uncleansed wound - and then think that it will heal of itself.

Danger of restoration 

The firm makes a proviso in its offer against damage from water-, gas line- and electrical installations, except that the costs of repairing damage to pipes shall be defrayed, if they are within eight centimetres of their placement on the blueprints provided - in my experience of the business, it is very rare that these pipes are placed so precisely in relation to the blueprints.  I consider it, therefore, too risky to force a floor back to its original level, when the respective pipes must follow along.  God knows whether natural gas companies will be able to accept the solution - particularly, when you take the latest explosion damage into consideration?







===1383===



AT most educational institutions, the level of activity is easy to gauge from the start of the education.  If a student takes part in classes, assignments and tests, they are active.  If not, they are inactive.

WHERE there is no required attendance, there will, as a rule, be homework and the like, which makes it possible to gauge the level of student activity, and there are mid-term examinations in all studies.  How to gauge student activity is up to the educational institutions.  I have no reason to believe that the institutions do not take this job seriously.  In the nature of things, there is a possibility of cheating during the first year of an education.  Therefore, I want to introduce a provision to require institutions to conduct its first assessment of activity no later than 6 months after the beginning of the education.

JENS Sandfeld Søndergaard claims that the student assistance rules are so lax that you can get from DKK 3,198 to DKK 38,376 a year without showing up in a classroom and without opening a book.  As an example, it is stated that if a person earns DKK 300,000, the relevant person can receive educational assistance for one month.







===1390===



The goal is that, prior to being able to absorb his knowledge about driving and technique, they can also profit from his experience in the area of getting sponsorship money and publicity, so the interest in speed and racing can also break even financially.

"The goal is that the major classes in Danish road racing in the coming years also get an infusion of new talent.  And this will only happen, if we "old guys" make an active effort to capture the interest of the young.

I have myself through Yamaha and Enghave Motor been lucky enough that I can make equipment available to two "apprentices".  And they are both full of moxy and have great ambitions.

Unfortunately, I cannot give them a guarantee of success with the two 80-cubic's, but now they are on board, and I want to do everything to support and train them, so their interest in road racing does not disappear," says Claus Wulff.







===0184===



Pasta is sold freshly made, dried, and in prepared dishes, and is used together with fish, fowl, meat and vegetables.

Since we began to produce fresh pasta, we have doubled sales every year.  This year, we count on selling 700 tons - this corresponds to 2.8 million packages, says product manager Lars Bred, Tholstrup Cheese.

Tholstrup Cheese is the only Danish producer of fresh pasta, but there are rumors in the dairy industry that a major bread producer will also start up production before long.

We can sense the trends abroad that there is a future in pasta, says Lars Bred, who yesterday returned home from the world's largest food fair NUGA in Germany.

Export

Pasta is still only a small part of Tholstrup Cheese's business.  Only 30 of the firm's 500 employees deal with the supple strips.

Yet, the firm already has exports to Norway, Sweden and Finland, and Lars Bred even believes that Italy itself will be a good customer country for his goods.







===1014===



"At the moment, people must pay me out of their own pockets, but most have municipal home help already.  But it doesn't need to be this way," says Bente Munck.  Supplement "In accordance with the Social Assistance Act 56, everyone can, in fact, get a supplement to employ a home helper themselves.  Municipalities must take care of older people in a satisfactory way and, if they cannot manage it, they must pay older people to employ home help themselves," says Bente Munck.

"That is how I read the Social Assistance Act, and I intend to propagate this construction here in Silkeborg.  Unfortunately, it is the municipalities who assess the needs of the elderly - and they apply an economic point of view.  But that is too short-sighted, because when the elderly lack help, they wind up in the hospital.  They cannot come home again, because there is nobody to look after them and the nursing homes are full.

Put harshly, I believe that municipalities have the blame for the elderly winding up in hospitals biding their time at DKK 1,500 a day," she says.







===1408===



What the Social Democrats believe about Denmark after the EC-no vote depends on who you ask.  The party is capable of supplying many interesting points of view.  At Christiansborg, the new chairman Poul Nyrup Rasmussen is endorsing the "official" viewpoint that we must not propose a solution before we have seen whether France and England will approve the Maastricht Treaty.  A negotiating tactic shared by the governing parties.

In Det Fri Aktuelt, Ritt Bjerregaard is encouraging a new referendum on something that resembles the Maastricht Treaty.  She does not even take cognizance of the referendum result, because there is no middle solution.  Either we're out or we're in, says Mrs. Bjerregaard.

A third prominent Social Democrat, namely, the dethroned chairman Svend Auken, is disseminating a third completely different point of view in the English Parliament's bulletin, Parliamentary Brief.

Here, he calls all the speculation about a new referendum pure wishful thinking.  Because: the Danish referendum is legally binding, and Denmark is therefore incapable of ratifying the Maastricht Treaty.







===0244===



And then there was the matter of the waiting lists that had to go.  In TEBA's case, John Winther did this by taking in all the young people on the waiting list.  It was that simple.  This means in TEBA's case that, from being 45 children in 1991, there will be 55 children in 1992, so we're talking about an increase of more than 10 percent.  It speaks for itself that TEBA's space will not be expanded for that reason.  It is not the intent to put in with one hand what is taken with the other. 

In 1992, there were two square metres allotted per child.  And here, it is like the calculation of housing rent, we include everything.  Toilets, hallways, the teachers' lounge, and so on.

A good-sized young person of five years weighs around 19 kilos.  As distributed in two square metres.  That is 9.5 kilos per square metre.  Or approximately 1,050 square centimetres per kilo of child.







===1429===



New at BTCC

Ford, Volkswagen and Renault are expected to get involved in British standard car racing in 1993.  BMW, Toyota, Vauxhall, Peugeot, Mazda and Nissan are already involved in the BTCC series, which Thorkild Thyrring has now put behind him after the mistake with the Andy Rouse team.  Audi, which recently withdrew from the German Group A series after controversies around a new crankshaft on the team's V8s, has informed its drivers - Stuck, Jelinski and Biela - that they are to "stroke the horse", and this is interpreted by observers as meaning that Audi will be back in 1993 and, therefore, has asked the drivers not to commit themselves elsewhere.

2,690 km per l.

A car built by French students could ruin gasoline companies, if it is put into mass production.  The car can drive just over 2,690 km on one litre of gasoline, which is a world record.  The unique car won in this special discipline in a competition with 73 other specially-built cars at the Silverstone track in Great Britain.  The earlier record was from 1988, when a Japanese built car drove 2,270 km on one litre.







===0675===



Thomas Stuer had to yield a set against the Korean Lee Kwan-Jin, but in the quarter final against the Chinese Wan Shengwen: "I won 15-9, 15-8, but was far behind in both sets, respectively, 0-7 and 2-7, before I got my basic game in place.  Especially in the first set, I varied my game well."

The most recent two times, Thomas Stuer has won the 1st set against Ardy Wiranata and, before today's semi-final, the tactics are: "Ardy must be kept back with a solid basic game, like I have put into practice in the 1st set, but both times have lost my grip on in the 2nd set, because I had the wind behind me.  Here in Japan, there is a side wind, and I have an easier time controlling for that."

The Danish women's and men's doubles took place yesterday, but in the mix three of the four semi-final pairs are Danish, so we are assured a place in the finals, when Henrik Svarrer/Marlene Thomsen meet our normally best constellation of Thomas Lund/Pernille Dupont.







===1347===



The EC countries have, as Pia Kjærsgaard must be aware, worked together for a number of years on the immigration and asylum policy, and this collaboration has, among other things, resulted in the EC Asylum Convention, which determines which state is responsible for the handling of an asylum application that is submitted in an EC member country.  When the convention becomes effective, one will, for example, be able to prevent asylum-seekers from submitting an application to several countries at the same time, since the application can only be handled by one country.  This means that an asylum-seeker, who has first submitted his application to, for example, Portugal or Spain, cannot as claimed by Pia Kjærsgaard simply decide to come to Denmark and have an asylum application handled here.

THAT will be the result of this convention, which the EC countries have drawn up as a part of their collaboration in the area of immigration and asylum.  But it has nothing to do with the Union Treaty.  What is new in the Union Treaty is that the collaboration already in existence on immigration and asylum policy will find a place within the framework of the treaty.  There is still talk of inter-state co-operation, but the EC countries have now expressed their desire to include this issue in the treaty as an issue of common interest.







===0388===



- Not everyone.  Your mother was very slim and athletic.  When she was expecting our daughter, you almost couldn't tell before the seventh month.  She carried well, as we say back home in Denmark.

- There must have been another man, Loulou stated matter-of-factly. - Didn't you notice that she had another man?

Bernie sat silently for a long time, then he leaned forward towards the other person and looked penetratingly at her.

- Your mother and I loved each other, you have to understand.  We met in Paris and it was love at first sight.  She was not a woman with secret love affairs, she never lied.

- She lied to me.  She led me to believe that you were my father.

- She presumably had her reasons, Loulou.  It can't have been easy for her to return to her parents under those conditions.  She may have been forced to keep silent about the truth and, gradually, she repressed it entirely.  It was simpler for her ? and also for you.  She must have acted out of love for you.







===0421===



-  But darling, why did you come alone to me? he asked, and remained standing at an appropriate distance.  Arnalta's blistering look must have hit him.  He did not wait for an answer but reached out with both hands, as he walked the last stretch towards her, and took her hands in his, without knowing what he was going to do with them.

She was still short of breath and had difficulty finding words.  He had made it too easy for her.  Now she just had to harden herself to accept a rejection without letting herself be crushed.

-  You don't need to hide out here, come in and eat with us, you would do us all a great honour.

If she had not been on an errand of life or death, it would have amused her - also to shock Arnalta.  But the idea of food and wine forced nausea up to her mouth, as a warning.







===1241===



It is the Danish divisions of large multinational companies that spend millions on TV-2 spots.  ABBA "Gold" has been advertised massively on television, just as AC/DC and other "greatest hits" are.

"I think TV advertisement campaigns harm Danish rock quite a bit.  We know from experience that there is a large block of the audience that only buy three - four records a year.  And whereas before they might have bought Kim Larsen, Anne Linnet, TV-2, they now buy what they see advertisements for on TV," says Stefan Fryland, chairman for the record company association IFPI.

But Fryland is also director for Polygram - one of the companies that advertise compilation records most extensively on TV, which may raise doubts about the sincerity of his statement.

"I realise that I'm wearing two hats and have two sets of accounts in this matter.  But it is also my own personal opinion that TV spots are harmful," he says.

There are no figures for how many millions of crowns the record industry throws into TV campaigns.  But a number of people believe that it provides food for thought that the total sales have nevertheless gone down.







===1428===



Can you be seduced in the King's Garden in 35 degree heat, while you are lying under a shady tree - fully clothed, mind you - drinking bottled water, smoking cigarettes and bending an ear to the confessions of a pop-provocateur?

Yes!

Carsten Bo is - for the record - 33 years old.  He is the son of former Minister for Industry Erling Jensen, a poet, pop singer and author.  The lead in groups with cryptic names, such as 40 Degree Fever, Men in Blue or, more recently, Sea Bee & The D'Generation.  He has - much against his will - been called the '90s' Steffen Brandt or C.V. Jørgensen.  But that makes him pretty mad.

"I am me!" he insists beneath the several hundred year old oak tree, lying, like the popster he is, on his back in his orange jeans, t-shirt - which naturally reveals a tanned hairy chest - a pair of 1968 "make love not war" sunglasses he has just bought in Paris and a Kings in his mouth.







===0431===



Rensch Nielsen, Ebeltoft, had a competition at the Vejle fair on the name of a piece of jewellery.  The solution was "Personality", and the premium was won by Harald Jensen, Vejle.


On September 8, DE BEERS CENTENARY opened an office in Moscow.  Present were also De Beers' top people, Russian politicians, diplomats and representatives of the country's diamond industry and trade.


IB GAARN, goldsmith from Køge, has recently restored silver and a chandelier at Lellinge church.  Here, he is standing with the 300-year old restored altar chalice.  (Photo: Stig Hansen).


HENRY HEERUP, famed artist, has designed this year's artist's piece for the Jewellery Chain.  It is his first work in silver.


Anniversary stamp 

For 225 years, there has been a jewellery and watch industry in Pforzheim.  The anniversary was celebrated, among other ways, by the post office with the issuance of a 100 Pfennig stamp.  As long as supplies last, people interested can get an exemplar with the first day's postmark at Ständige Musterausstellung, Poststrasse 1, W-7530 Pforzheim.


New journeymen

Two journeyman tests were passed in August.  Both apprentices are trained at the Royal Copenhagen A/S Georg Jensen Silversmithy.  Congratulations to the goldsmith LYKKE ELKJÆR OLSEN and to hollowware silversmith GITTE TOFTESKOV RASMUSSEN.







===0593===



A rent allowance may be sought by all retired persons - both single and married, where one or both spouses are retired.  The rent allowance is tax-free.

The rent allowance is calculated with a starting point in the amount of the rent, the income of the household, the size of the apartment, and the size and composition of the household.  With respect to the calculation of the rent allowance, the starting point is taken in the so-called threshold amount.  The threshold amount is for incomes that do not exceed approximately DKK 130,000 in 1992 11 2/3 % of the household income.  The rent allowance in 1992 amounts to 93 1/3 % of the difference between your estimated threshold amount and your rent.

Note that if the gross floorage of your residence exceeds 65 sq.m. and you live alone in the apartment, you will have your rent allowance reduced for the first 20 surplus square metres to 57% of the cost per sq.m.  If your residence exceeds 85 sq.m., your rent allowance will be reduced to 50% of the cost per sq.m. for the surplus sq.m.  If the floorage limits are exceeded because, for example, your spouse or co-habitee has died or your spouse or co-habitee has been taken to a nursing home, the surplus will have no influence on your rent allowance.







===0187===



A shock in a world that has been used to growth - and, as a rule, strong growth.

But even though total investment fell, it rose significantly for certain types of hardware, namely personal computers, workstations and small and medium-sized systems for multiple users - all to this extent dealing with machines with a Unix monitoring system.  Here, investment rose by an average of 12 percent.

"The Unix part of smaller multiple user systems attained approximately half of the sales in the '90s.  In 1996, the Unix part will be 70-80 percent," predicts Per Andersen from the analysis firm of IDC Scandinavia and who is responsible for the analysis of the Unix market.

"Unix will not overtake the dominance of DOS on the desktop.  Unix's role is in the server.  And Unix is not a substitute for former systems but is to be a supplement.  The personal computer did not kill the mainframe, but first and foremost revolutionised the use of word processing and other simple applications."  Hardware without interest In this market - Unix and open systems, which ultimately are to make it possible to transfer applications between different multiple user systems - there is a stiff competition at the moment. 







===0781===



"It is quite clear that investments abroad will rise a bit in the coming years.  But we are not rushing forward blindly, so that is why for some time to come we are only talking about the purchase of stocks in foreign companies that have Danish subsidiaries".  

ATP director Palle Simonsen will not say too much, when he has to comment on future investment strategy.  He realises that every little movement from ATP will be followed closely by the Danish stock market because of ATP's very large significance for the stock market.

Palle Simonsen says that, at the moment, there is a board resolution to purchase foreign stocks and bonds for up to 1.5 percent of the asset portfolio.

Without wanting to commit to any particular percentage, Palle Simonsen does not hide that ATP in five-ten years will have a significantly larger share of foreign securities in its holdings.  He believes that it is a natural development in a capital market that is on its way towards completely abolishing any form of barriers across national boundaries.







===0307===



Dear deeply confused

It is correct that child benefits and supplements for families with children will lapse.  On the other hand, her father can be made to contribute (as a rule, less than before the child turns 18), while the young person is at school.  However, only through the first real course of study.

Even though you dislike it, it is probably the best solution.  It is difficult for young people, since 3 G is an important school year.  It requires very high grades to be accepted by most higher educations, and a low grade average is really not worth much.  That in itself is an incredible pressure on our young people.

Therefore, it is difficult to see a solution in just advising her to get work experience alongside studying for exams.

Single providers of older children are even more poorly situated, since the rule that - as a parent of a student over 17 - you could have your standard deduction increased was done away with; this rule could have helped you.





